Document .spec.trafficDistribution field in Service (#45276)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/services-networking/service-traffic-distribution.md

---
reviewers:
- gauravkg
title: Service Traffic Distribution
content_type: concept
weight: 130
description: >-

>   The `spec.trafficDistribution` field within a Kubernetes Service allows you to
>   express routing preferences for service endpoints. This can optimize network
>   traffic patterns for performance, cost, or reliability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Ways to express routing preferences for Service endpoints. This can optimize network
  traffic patterns for performance, cost, or reliability.
```

---

<!-- overview -->

> {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.30" state="alpha" >}}

Reviewer: Even better:
```suggestion
{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="ServiceTrafficDistribution" >}}
```

Reviewer: (this automatically works out the right phase and which release it changed to the current phase)

The `spec.trafficDistribution` field within a Kubernetes Service allows you to
express preferences for how traffic should be routed to Service endpoints. This
field acts as a hint, and implementations, while encouraged to consider the
preference, are not strictly bound by it.

<!-- body -->

> ## Using Service Traffic Distribution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Traffic distribution preference
```

In a concept page, headings are often also concepts.

> You can influence how a Kubernetes Service routes traffic by setting the
> optional `.spec.trafficDistribution` field. Currently, the following value is
> supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can influence how a Kubernetes Service routes traffic by setting the
optional `.spec.trafficDistribution` field, provided that you have enabled the
`ServiceTrafficDistribution` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
for your cluster and all of its nodes.
In Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}}, the following field value is supported:
```

* `PreferClose`: Indicates a preference for routing traffic to endpoints that
  are topologically proximate to the client. The interpretation of
  "topologically proximate" may vary across implementations and could encompass
  endpoints within the same node, rack, zone, or even region. Setting this value
  gives implementations permission to make different tradeoffs, e.g. optimizing
  for proximity rather than equal distribution of load. Users should not set
  this value if such tradeoffs are not acceptable.

If the field is not set, the implementation will apply its default routing strategy.

## How it Works

Implementations like kube-proxy use the `spec.trafficDistribution` field as a
guideline. The behavior associated with a given preference may subtly differ
between implementations.

* `PreferClose` with kube-proxy: For kube-proxy, this means prioritizing
  endpoints within the same zone as the client. The EndpointSlice controller
  updates EndpointSlices with hints to communicate this preference, which
  kube-proxy then uses for routing decisions. If a client's zone does not have

>   any available endpoints, traffic will be routed cluster-wide for that client.

Reviewer: I'd use a Markdown [description list](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#definition-lists) here.

In the absence of any value for `trafficDistribution`, the default routing
strategy for kube-proxy is to distribute traffic to any endpoint in the cluster.

### Comparison with `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode=Auto`

The `trafficDistribution` field with `PreferClose` shares a common goal of
prioritizing same-zone traffic with `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode=Auto`
annotation. However, there are key differences in their approaches:

> * `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode=Auto`: Attempts to distribute traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `service.kubernetes.io/topology-mode: Auto`: Attempts to distribute traffic
```
Neither YAML nor JSON use `=` for that syntax.
